versioned_docs/version-5.0/doc/getting-started-stack.md, before:

---
title: SRS Stack
sidebar_label: SRS Stack
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

# SRS Stack

SRS Stack is a video cloud solution that is lightweight, open-source, and based on Go, 
Reactjs, SRS, FFmpeg, WebRTC, etc.

## Introduction

SRS Stack, an open-source out-of-the-box audio and video solution, is built entirely based on various scenarios.
Common examples include push-pull streaming scenarios that support different protocols and can be embedded into
websites like WordPress.

In recording scenarios, it supports merging multiple streams, setting filters, and recording specific streams only.
For forwarding and virtual live streaming, files and other streams can be sent to different platforms or to SRS Stack
itself. With AI automatic subtitles, OpenAI's capabilities can be utilized to automatically recognize and embed
subtitles into the video stream. One-click automatic HTTPS makes it easy to enable HTTPS capabilities.

More diverse scenarios will be available in the future.

## FAQ

If you encounter issues while using SRS Stack, please read the [FAQ](../../../faq-srs-stack) first.

## Usage

Please select your platform.

> Remark: Please choose the Ubuntu 20 system, as other systems may encounter some strange issues.

### Docker

Strongly recommend running SRS Stack with docker:

```bash
docker run --restart always -d -it --name srs-stack -v $HOME/data:/data \
  -p 2022:2022 -p 2443:2443 -p 1935:1935 -p 8000:8000/udp -p 10080:10080/udp \
  ossrs/srs-stack:5
```

Then you can open [http://localhost:2022](http://localhost:2022) to use SRS Stack.

For more details, please refer to [SRS Stack Docker](https://github.com/ossrs/srs-stack#usage).

### HELM

Strongly recommend running SRS Stack with HELM:

```bash
helm repo add srs http://helm.ossrs.io/stable
helm install srs srs/srs-stack --set persistence.path=$HOME/data \
  --set service.http=2022 --set service.https=2443 --set service.rtmp=1935 \
  --set service.rtc=8000 --set service.srt=10080
```

Then you can open [http://localhost:2022](http://localhost:2022) to use SRS Stack.

### Script

For Ubuntu 20+, you can download the [linux-srs_stack-en.tar.gz](https://github.com/ossrs/srs-stack/releases/latest/download/linux-srs_stack-en.tar.gz) 
and install it.

### DigitalOcean Droplet

Easily set up an SRS Stack with just one click. For more information, check out 
[How to Establish a Video Streaming Service with a Single Click](../../../blog/SRS-Stack-Tutorial).

### aaPanel

SRS Stack offers a BaoTa plugin, for usage instructions refer to the [SRS Stack aaPanel Plugin](../../../blog/BT-aaPanel).

## Features

About the features of SRS Stack and comparison with SRS.

### Compare to SRS

Comparing SRS Stack and SRS, both offer media streaming capabilities at a similar level.
However, SRS Stack provides a more powerful and feature-rich experience for end users,
eliminating the need to write any code. Users can directly utilize SRS Stack for your
media services needs.

| Comparison     | SRS Stack         | SRS           | Notes                                                              |
|----------------|-------------------|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| License        | AGPL-3.0-or-later | MIT           | SRS is licenced under MIT, SRS Stack is AGPL-3.0-or-later.         |
| Live Streaming | Yes               | Yes           | Both support RTMP, HLS, and HTTP-FLV protocols.                    |
| WebRTC         | Yes               | Yes           | WebRTC is supported by both.                                       |
| Auto HTTPS     | Yes               | No            | SRS Stack supports automatic request and update HTTPS certs.       |
| Console        | Enhanced          | HTTP API      | SRS Stack offers a more powerful console.                          |
| Authentication | Yes               | HTTP Callback | SRS Stack has built-in authentication, while SRS uses callbacks.   |
| DVR            | Enhanced          | File-based    | SRS Stack supports DVR to file and cloud storage.                  |
| Forwarding     | Enhanced          | Basic         | SRS Stack can forward to multiple platforms via various protocols. |
| Virtual Live   | Yes               | No            | SRS Stack provides advanced virtual live streaming capabilities.   |
| WordPress      | Yes               | No            | SRS Stack offers a WordPress plugin and step-by-step guidelines.   |
| Transcoding    | Yes               | No            | SRS Stack supports live stream transcoding.                        |
| Transcription  | Yes               | No            | Convert live speech to subtitle and overlay to video stream.       |
| Live Room      | Yes               | No            | Support live room feature.                                         |

### Streaming and Authentication

SRS Stack support enhanced streaming with authentication, based on SRS callback. SRS Stack generate and save
the stream token to Redis, and verify the stream token when user publish stream via RTMP, SRT, or WHIP/WebRTC.

SRS Stack also proxies and secures all the HTTP API of SRS, so only authenticated user can access the HTTP API
and the console.

### DVR

SRS Stack support DVR or Recording, to convert live stream to file, then save to local disk or cloud storage.
We also support merge multiple republish session to one DVR file, and support set filters for recording specified
streams.

See [A Step-by-Step Guide to Server-Side Recording and AWS S3 Integration](../../../blog/Record-Live-Streaming) for details.

### Automatic HTTPS

SRS Stack support automatic HTTPS, just by one click, you can enable HTTPS for your SRS Stack. SRS Stack will
automatically request and update the HTTPS certificate from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/). Automatic HTTPS
allows WHIP or publish by webpage, and also support WebRTC, and access user's microphones.

See [How to Secure SRS with Let's Encrypt by 1-Click](../../../blog/SRS-Stack-HTTPS) for details.

### Virtual Live Events

You can use prerecorded videos to simulate live events. You can do 7x24 live stream with only 1 video file. You can
also pull stream to your live room, to make the live stream powerful. You can even pull your IP camera stream to your
live room.

See [Harness the Power of Pre-Recorded Content for Seamless and Engaging Live Streaming Experiences](../../../blog/Virtual-Live-Events) and
[Easily Stream Your RTSP IP Camera to YouTube, Twitch, or Facebook](../../../blog/Stream-IP-Camera-Events).

### Restream

With SRS Stack, you can restream to multiple platforms, like YouTube, Twitch, Facebook, etc. SRS Stack will
automatically select a stream to forward, so you can publish multiple streams as fault-tolerant or backup
stream, when a stream is down, SRS Stack will switch to another one.

See [Effortlessly Restream Live Content Across Multiple Platforms with SRS Stack](../../../blog/Multi-Platform-Streaming) for details.

### AI Transcription

SRS Stack supports AI transcription, which is powered by OpenAI, to convert live speech to text and overlay to
the video stream as a new live stream. With this feature, allows you to engage more audiences, especially for people
with hearing disabilities or those who are non-native speakers.

See [Creating Accessible, Multilingual Subtitles for Diverse Audiences](../../../blog/live-streams-transcription) for details.

### Transcode

SRS Stack suppport transcoding live stream, to decrease the bitrate and save bandwidth and cost, or filter the
live stream content to make it better.

See [Efficient Live Streaming Transcoding for Reducing Bandwidth and Saving Costs](../../../blog/Live-Transcoding) for details.

## AI Products

We are implementing various AI tools and products in the SRS Stack, and here is the latest status. We will continue
to update this document.

1. AI Transcript: Implement voice-to-text by connecting to OpenAI's Whisper, and overlay the text captions onto the live broadcast, enabling automatic subtitles for streaming.
   * Status: Completed and available in the SRS Stack. Refer to [Creating Accessible, Multilingual Subtitles for Diverse Audiences](../../../blog/live-streams-transcription).
1. Document Assistant: Connect to the AI document API, and provide an AI assistant on the official website, so users can obtain correct answers without spending time reading the documentation.
   * Status: Beta version available in official website [https://ossrs.io](https://ossrs.io) and you can click the `Ask AI` button to use it.
1. Streamer AI Asssistant: Easily create a personal, voice-driven GPT AI assistant with SRS Stack for enhanced language learning, multi-language chats, and convenient assistance in any setting. Perfect for interactive streaming and daily tasks. It offers numerous possibilities for living room and streaming hosts with AI assistance.
   * Status: Beta version available in the SRS Stack. Refer to [Speak to the Future - Transform Your Browser into a Personal Voice-Driven GPT AI Assistant with SRS Stack](../../../blog/browser-voice-driven-gpt).
1. VoD Translation: Translate English videos into Chinese for English learning or create multilingual videos, frequently used in education and e-commerce.
   * Beta version available in the SRS Stack. Refer to [Revolutionize Video Content with SRS Stack - Effortless Dubbing and Translating to Multiple Languages Using OpenAI](../../../blog/dubbing-translating).

If you are interested in our AI products, feel free to join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/yZ4BnPmHAd) server to discuss with us.

## HTTP API

You can open the `System > OpenAPI` to get the Bearer token and try the HTTP API. 

You can click the button on the web to request a HTTP API, you can also use the curl or js code to request the
HTTP API. Please follow the instructions on the web, for example, use curl to request the HTTP API:

```bash
curl http://localhost:2022/terraform/v1/mgmt/versions
```

Or with the Bearer token:

```bash
curl http://localhost:2022/terraform/v1/hooks/srs/secret/query \
  -X POST -H 'Authorization: Bearer xxxxxx' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' --data '{}'
```

> Note: You can open the `System > OpenAPI` to get the Bearer token and try the HTTP API.

> Note: The web may use JWT token, but you can also use Bearer token to request the HTTP API.

In addition to the sample APIs listed on this page, users can perform all web-based actions through the
HTTP API. To identify the requests and responses for each API, open Google Chrome, navigate to
`View > Developer > Developer Tools` click on the `Network` tab, and examine the relevant API interactions.

SRS Stack also proxy the [SRS HTTP API](./http-api.md), which prefix with `/api/v1/` such as:

```bash
curl http://localhost:2022/api/v1/versions
```

Or with the Bearer token:

```bash
curl http://localhost:2022/api/v1/vhosts/ \
  -X GET -H 'Authorization: Bearer xxxxxx' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'
```

> Note: You can open the `System > OpenAPI` to get the Bearer token and try the HTTP API.

Please read the detail about the API from the [SRS HTTP API](./http-api.md).

## HTTP Callback

HTTP Callback refers to the SRS Stack running within a Docker container, initiating an HTTP request to
a target URL. For instance, the following process illustrates that when OBS publishs an RTMP stream to SRS Stack,
the SRS Stack informs your server about the event by sending an HTTP request to the target URL.

```bash
                   +-----------------------+
                   +                       +
+-------+          +     +-----------+     +                 +--------------+
+  OBS  +--RTMP->--+-----+ SRS Stack +-----+----HTTP--->-----+  Your Server +
+-------+          +     +-----------+     +  (Target URL)   +--------------+
                   +                       +
                   +       Docker          +
                   +-----------------------+
```

All HTTP requests should be:

* `Content-Type: application-json`

All responses should use:

* `Status: 200 OK` and `{"code": 0}` for success.
* Otherwise, error or fail.

See examples in [HTTP Callback](../docs/v6/doc/http-callback#go-example)

### HTTP Callback: Connectivity Check

Occasionally, you might need to verify if the network is accessible and determine the appropriate target URL to
use. By using the curl command inside the Docker container, you can simulate this request and confirm if the
target URL can be accessed by curl or the SRS Stack.

First, install curl in SRS Stack:

```bash
docker exec -it srs-stack apt-get update -y
docker exec -it srs-stack apt-get install -y curl
```

Then, simulate an HTTP request to your server:

```bash
docker exec -it srs-stack curl http://your-target-URL
```

You can use any target URL to test, such as:

* Intranet IP: `http://192.168.1.10/check`
* Internet IP: `http://159.133.96.20/check`
* URL via HTTP: `http://your-domain.com/check`
* URL via HTTPS: `https://your-domain.com/check`

Keep in mind that you should test the connection to the target URL within the SRS Stack Docker, and avoid
running the curl command from a different server.

### HTTP Callback: on_publish

For HTTP callback `on_publish` event:

```json
Request:
{
  "request_id": "3ab26a09-59b0-42f7-98e3-a281c7d0712b",
  "action": "on_unpublish",
  "opaque": "mytoken",
  "vhost": "__defaultVhost__",
  "app": "live",
  "stream": "livestream",
  "param": "?secret=8f7605d657c74d69b6b48f532c469bc9"
}

Response:
{
  "code": 0
}
```

* Allow publishing if response success.
* Reject publishing if response error.

### HTTP Callback: on_unpublish

For HTTP callback `on_unpublish` event:

```json
Request:
{
  "request_id": "9ea987fa-1563-4c28-8c6c-a0e9edd4f536",
  "action": "on_unpublish",
  "opaque": "mytoken",
  "vhost": "__defaultVhost__",
  "app": "live",
  "stream": "livestream"
}

Response:
{
  "code": 0
}
```

* Ignore any response error.

### HTTP Callback: on_record_begin

For HTTP callback `on_record_begin` event:

```json
Request:
{
  "request_id": "80ad1ddf-1731-450c-83ec-735ea79dd6a3",
  "action": "on_record_begin",
  "opaque": "mytoken",
  "vhost": "__defaultVhost__",
  "app": "live",
  "stream": "livestream",
  "uuid": "824b96f9-8d51-4046-ba1e-a9aec7d57c95"
}

Response:
{
"code": 0
}
```

* Ignore any response error.

### HTTP Callback: on_record_end

For HTTP callback `on_record_end` event:

```json
Request:
{
  "request_id": "d13a0e60-e2fe-42cd-a8d8-f04c7e71b5f5",
  "action": "on_record_end",
  "opaque": "mytoken",
  "vhost": "__defaultVhost__",
  "app": "live",
  "stream": "livestream",
  "uuid": "824b96f9-8d51-4046-ba1e-a9aec7d57c95",
  "artifact_code": 0,
  "artifact_path": "/data/record/824b96f9-8d51-4046-ba1e-a9aec7d57c95/index.mp4",
  "artifact_url": "http://localhost:2022/terraform/v1/hooks/record/hls/824b96f9-8d51-4046-ba1e-a9aec7d57c95/index.mp4"
}

Response:
{
  "code": 0
}
```

* The `uuid` is the UUID of record task.
* The `artifact_code` indicates the error code. If no error, it's 0.
* The `artifact_path` is the path of artifact mp4 in the container.
* The `artifact_url` is the URL path to access the artifact mp4.
* Ignore any response error.

![](https://ossrs.io/gif/v1/sls.gif?site=ossrs.io&path=/lts/doc/en/v5/getting-started-stack)

Commit message:

Add changelog for SRS Stack.

versioned_docs/version-5.0/doc/getting-started-stack.md, after:

---
title: SRS Stack
sidebar_label: SRS Stack
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

# SRS Stack

SRS Stack is a video cloud solution that is lightweight, open-source, and based on Go, 
Reactjs, SRS, FFmpeg, WebRTC, etc.

## Introduction

SRS Stack, an open-source out-of-the-box audio and video solution, is built entirely based on various scenarios.
Common examples include push-pull streaming scenarios that support different protocols and can be embedded into
websites like WordPress.

In recording scenarios, it supports merging multiple streams, setting filters, and recording specific streams only.
For forwarding and virtual live streaming, files and other streams can be sent to different platforms or to SRS Stack
itself. With AI automatic subtitles, OpenAI's capabilities can be utilized to automatically recognize and embed
subtitles into the video stream. One-click automatic HTTPS makes it easy to enable HTTPS capabilities.

More diverse scenarios will be available in the future.

## FAQ

If you encounter issues while using SRS Stack, please read the [FAQ](../../../faq-srs-stack) first.

## Usage

Please select your platform.

> Remark: Please choose the Ubuntu 20 system, as other systems may encounter some strange issues.

### Docker

Strongly recommend running SRS Stack with docker:

```bash
docker run --restart always -d -it --name srs-stack -v $HOME/data:/data \
  -p 2022:2022 -p 2443:2443 -p 1935:1935 -p 8000:8000/udp -p 10080:10080/udp \
  ossrs/srs-stack:5
```

Then you can open [http://localhost:2022](http://localhost:2022) to use SRS Stack.

For more details, please refer to [SRS Stack Docker](https://github.com/ossrs/srs-stack#usage).

### HELM

Strongly recommend running SRS Stack with HELM:

```bash
helm repo add srs http://helm.ossrs.io/stable
helm install srs srs/srs-stack --set persistence.path=$HOME/data \
  --set service.http=2022 --set service.https=2443 --set service.rtmp=1935 \
  --set service.rtc=8000 --set service.srt=10080
```

Then you can open [http://localhost:2022](http://localhost:2022) to use SRS Stack.

### Script

For Ubuntu 20+, you can download the [linux-srs_stack-en.tar.gz](https://github.com/ossrs/srs-stack/releases/latest/download/linux-srs_stack-en.tar.gz) 
and install it.

### DigitalOcean Droplet

Easily set up an SRS Stack with just one click. For more information, check out 
[How to Establish a Video Streaming Service with a Single Click](../../../blog/SRS-Stack-Tutorial).

### aaPanel

SRS Stack offers a BaoTa plugin, for usage instructions refer to the [SRS Stack aaPanel Plugin](../../../blog/BT-aaPanel).

## Changelog

For the update log of the SRS Stack, please refer to [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/ossrs/srs-stack/blob/main/DEVELOPER.md#changelog).

For specific features supported by a particular version, you can view the CHANGELOG in the version release, see [Releases](https://github.com/ossrs/srs-stack/releases).

## Features

About the features of SRS Stack and comparison with SRS，for more details please read [Features](https://github.com/ossrs/srs-stack?tab=readme-ov-file#features).

### Compare to SRS

Comparing SRS Stack and SRS, both offer media streaming capabilities at a similar level.
However, SRS Stack provides a more powerful and feature-rich experience for end users,
eliminating the need to write any code. Users can directly utilize SRS Stack for your
media services needs.

| Comparison     | SRS Stack         | SRS           | Notes                                                              |
|----------------|-------------------|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| License        | AGPL-3.0-or-later | MIT           | SRS is licenced under MIT, SRS Stack is AGPL-3.0-or-later.         |
| Live Streaming | Yes               | Yes           | Both support RTMP, HLS, and HTTP-FLV protocols.                    |
| WebRTC         | Yes               | Yes           | WebRTC is supported by both.                                       |
| Auto HTTPS     | Yes               | No            | SRS Stack supports automatic request and update HTTPS certs.       |
| Console        | Enhanced          | HTTP API      | SRS Stack offers a more powerful console.                          |
| Authentication | Yes               | HTTP Callback | SRS Stack has built-in authentication, while SRS uses callbacks.   |
| DVR            | Enhanced          | File-based    | SRS Stack supports DVR to file and cloud storage.                  |
| Forwarding     | Enhanced          | Basic         | SRS Stack can forward to multiple platforms via various protocols. |
| Virtual Live   | Yes               | No            | SRS Stack provides advanced virtual live streaming capabilities.   |
| WordPress      | Yes               | No            | SRS Stack offers a WordPress plugin and step-by-step guidelines.   |
| Transcoding    | Yes               | No            | SRS Stack supports live stream transcoding.                        |
| Transcription  | Yes               | No            | Convert live speech to subtitle and overlay to video stream.       |
| Live Room      | Yes               | No            | Support live room feature.                                         |

### Streaming and Authentication

SRS Stack support enhanced streaming with authentication, based on SRS callback. SRS Stack generate and save
the stream token to Redis, and verify the stream token when user publish stream via RTMP, SRT, or WHIP/WebRTC.

SRS Stack also proxies and secures all the HTTP API of SRS, so only authenticated user can access the HTTP API
and the console.

### DVR

SRS Stack support DVR or Recording, to convert live stream to file, then save to local disk or cloud storage.
We also support merge multiple republish session to one DVR file, and support set filters for recording specified
streams.

See [A Step-by-Step Guide to Server-Side Recording and AWS S3 Integration](../../../blog/Record-Live-Streaming) for details.

### Automatic HTTPS

SRS Stack support automatic HTTPS, just by one click, you can enable HTTPS for your SRS Stack. SRS Stack will
automatically request and update the HTTPS certificate from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/). Automatic HTTPS
allows WHIP or publish by webpage, and also support WebRTC, and access user's microphones.

See [How to Secure SRS with Let's Encrypt by 1-Click](../../../blog/SRS-Stack-HTTPS) for details.

### Virtual Live Events

You can use prerecorded videos to simulate live events. You can do 7x24 live stream with only 1 video file. You can
also pull stream to your live room, to make the live stream powerful. You can even pull your IP camera stream to your
live room.

See [Harness the Power of Pre-Recorded Content for Seamless and Engaging Live Streaming Experiences](../../../blog/Virtual-Live-Events) and
[Easily Stream Your RTSP IP Camera to YouTube, Twitch, or Facebook](../../../blog/Stream-IP-Camera-Events).

### Restream

With SRS Stack, you can restream to multiple platforms, like YouTube, Twitch, Facebook, etc. SRS Stack will
automatically select a stream to forward, so you can publish multiple streams as fault-tolerant or backup
stream, when a stream is down, SRS Stack will switch to another one.

See [Effortlessly Restream Live Content Across Multiple Platforms with SRS Stack](../../../blog/Multi-Platform-Streaming) for details.

### AI Transcription

SRS Stack supports AI transcription, which is powered by OpenAI, to convert live speech to text and overlay to
the video stream as a new live stream. With this feature, allows you to engage more audiences, especially for people
with hearing disabilities or those who are non-native speakers.

See [Creating Accessible, Multilingual Subtitles for Diverse Audiences](../../../blog/live-streams-transcription) for details.

### Transcode

SRS Stack suppport transcoding live stream, to decrease the bitrate and save bandwidth and cost, or filter the
live stream content to make it better.

See [Efficient Live Streaming Transcoding for Reducing Bandwidth and Saving Costs](../../../blog/Live-Transcoding) for details.

## AI Products

We are implementing various AI tools and products in the SRS Stack, and here is the latest status. We will continue
to update this document.

1. AI Transcript: Implement voice-to-text by connecting to OpenAI's Whisper, and overlay the text captions onto the live broadcast, enabling automatic subtitles for streaming.
   * Status: Completed and available in the SRS Stack. Refer to [Creating Accessible, Multilingual Subtitles for Diverse Audiences](../../../blog/live-streams-transcription).
1. Document Assistant: Connect to the AI document API, and provide an AI assistant on the official website, so users can obtain correct answers without spending time reading the documentation.
   * Status: Beta version available in official website [https://ossrs.io](https://ossrs.io) and you can click the `Ask AI` button to use it.
1. Streamer AI Asssistant: Easily create a personal, voice-driven GPT AI assistant with SRS Stack for enhanced language learning, multi-language chats, and convenient assistance in any setting. Perfect for interactive streaming and daily tasks. It offers numerous possibilities for living room and streaming hosts with AI assistance.
   * Status: Beta version available in the SRS Stack. Refer to [Speak to the Future - Transform Your Browser into a Personal Voice-Driven GPT AI Assistant with SRS Stack](../../../blog/browser-voice-driven-gpt).
1. VoD Translation: Translate English videos into Chinese for English learning or create multilingual videos, frequently used in education and e-commerce.
   * Beta version available in the SRS Stack. Refer to [Revolutionize Video Content with SRS Stack - Effortless Dubbing and Translating to Multiple Languages Using OpenAI](../../../blog/dubbing-translating).

If you are interested in our AI products, feel free to join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/yZ4BnPmHAd) server to discuss with us.

## HTTP API

You can open the `System > OpenAPI` to get the Bearer token and try the HTTP API. 

You can click the button on the web to request a HTTP API, you can also use the curl or js code to request the
HTTP API. Please follow the instructions on the web, for example, use curl to request the HTTP API:

```bash
curl http://localhost:2022/terraform/v1/mgmt/versions
```

Or with the Bearer token:

```bash
curl http://localhost:2022/terraform/v1/hooks/srs/secret/query \
  -X POST -H 'Authorization: Bearer xxxxxx' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' --data '{}'
```

> Note: You can open the `System > OpenAPI` to get the Bearer token and try the HTTP API.

> Note: The web may use JWT token, but you can also use Bearer token to request the HTTP API.

In addition to the sample APIs listed on this page, users can perform all web-based actions through the
HTTP API. To identify the requests and responses for each API, open Google Chrome, navigate to
`View > Developer > Developer Tools` click on the `Network` tab, and examine the relevant API interactions.

SRS Stack also proxy the [SRS HTTP API](./http-api.md), which prefix with `/api/v1/` such as:

```bash
curl http://localhost:2022/api/v1/versions
```

Or with the Bearer token:

```bash
curl http://localhost:2022/api/v1/vhosts/ \
  -X GET -H 'Authorization: Bearer xxxxxx' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'
```

> Note: You can open the `System > OpenAPI` to get the Bearer token and try the HTTP API.

Please read the detail about the API from the [SRS HTTP API](./http-api.md).

## HTTP Callback

HTTP Callback refers to the SRS Stack running within a Docker container, initiating an HTTP request to
a target URL. For instance, the following process illustrates that when OBS publishs an RTMP stream to SRS Stack,
the SRS Stack informs your server about the event by sending an HTTP request to the target URL.

```bash
                   +-----------------------+
                   +                       +
+-------+          +     +-----------+     +                 +--------------+
+  OBS  +--RTMP->--+-----+ SRS Stack +-----+----HTTP--->-----+  Your Server +
+-------+          +     +-----------+     +  (Target URL)   +--------------+
                   +                       +
                   +       Docker          +
                   +-----------------------+
```

All HTTP requests should be:

* `Content-Type: application-json`

All responses should use:

* `Status: 200 OK` and `{"code": 0}` for success.
* Otherwise, error or fail.

See examples in [HTTP Callback](../docs/v6/doc/http-callback#go-example)

### HTTP Callback: Connectivity Check

Occasionally, you might need to verify if the network is accessible and determine the appropriate target URL to
use. By using the curl command inside the Docker container, you can simulate this request and confirm if the
target URL can be accessed by curl or the SRS Stack.

First, install curl in SRS Stack:

```bash
docker exec -it srs-stack apt-get update -y
docker exec -it srs-stack apt-get install -y curl
```

Then, simulate an HTTP request to your server:

```bash
docker exec -it srs-stack curl http://your-target-URL
```

You can use any target URL to test, such as:

* Intranet IP: `http://192.168.1.10/check`
* Internet IP: `http://159.133.96.20/check`
* URL via HTTP: `http://your-domain.com/check`
* URL via HTTPS: `https://your-domain.com/check`

Keep in mind that you should test the connection to the target URL within the SRS Stack Docker, and avoid
running the curl command from a different server.

### HTTP Callback: on_publish

For HTTP callback `on_publish` event:

```json
Request:
{
  "request_id": "3ab26a09-59b0-42f7-98e3-a281c7d0712b",
  "action": "on_unpublish",
  "opaque": "mytoken",
  "vhost": "__defaultVhost__",
  "app": "live",
  "stream": "livestream",
  "param": "?secret=8f7605d657c74d69b6b48f532c469bc9"
}

Response:
{
  "code": 0
}
```

* Allow publishing if response success.
* Reject publishing if response error.

### HTTP Callback: on_unpublish

For HTTP callback `on_unpublish` event:

```json
Request:
{
  "request_id": "9ea987fa-1563-4c28-8c6c-a0e9edd4f536",
  "action": "on_unpublish",
  "opaque": "mytoken",
  "vhost": "__defaultVhost__",
  "app": "live",
  "stream": "livestream"
}

Response:
{
  "code": 0
}
```

* Ignore any response error.

### HTTP Callback: on_record_begin

For HTTP callback `on_record_begin` event:

```json
Request:
{
  "request_id": "80ad1ddf-1731-450c-83ec-735ea79dd6a3",
  "action": "on_record_begin",
  "opaque": "mytoken",
  "vhost": "__defaultVhost__",
  "app": "live",
  "stream": "livestream",
  "uuid": "824b96f9-8d51-4046-ba1e-a9aec7d57c95"
}

Response:
{
"code": 0
}
```

* Ignore any response error.

### HTTP Callback: on_record_end

For HTTP callback `on_record_end` event:

```json
Request:
{
  "request_id": "d13a0e60-e2fe-42cd-a8d8-f04c7e71b5f5",
  "action": "on_record_end",
  "opaque": "mytoken",
  "vhost": "__defaultVhost__",
  "app": "live",
  "stream": "livestream",
  "uuid": "824b96f9-8d51-4046-ba1e-a9aec7d57c95",
  "artifact_code": 0,
  "artifact_path": "/data/record/824b96f9-8d51-4046-ba1e-a9aec7d57c95/index.mp4",
  "artifact_url": "http://localhost:2022/terraform/v1/hooks/record/hls/824b96f9-8d51-4046-ba1e-a9aec7d57c95/index.mp4"
}

Response:
{
  "code": 0
}
```

* The `uuid` is the UUID of record task.
* The `artifact_code` indicates the error code. If no error, it's 0.
* The `artifact_path` is the path of artifact mp4 in the container.
* The `artifact_url` is the URL path to access the artifact mp4.
* Ignore any response error.

![](https://ossrs.io/gif/v1/sls.gif?site=ossrs.io&path=/lts/doc/en/v5/getting-started-stack)
