blog/2022-02-10-GSoC.md, before:

---
slug: GSoC-2022
title: GSoC
authors: []
tags: [GSoC]
custom_edit_url: null
---

## Project Description

SRS is a simple, high efficiency and realtime video server, supports RTMP/WebRTC/HLS/HTTP-FLV/SRT.

## Information for Students

### Getting Started

1. **Get to know SRS.** If you are a student interested in contributing to SRS, it is recommended to start by join to the SRS [Discord](https://discord.gg/DfJFjpxmC7) and exploring both the codebase and the development workflow. Feel free to contact us if you have any questions. Also do not hesitate to answer questions from other students on our [Discord](https://discord.gg/DfJFjpxmC7) channel if you know the answer to something.
2. **Find a project.** Listed on this page are mentored and un-mentored projects. Mentored projects are well-defined and mentor(s) have already volunteered. Un-mentored projects are additional ideas you may want to consider, but you will have to contact us to find a mentor. You can also propose your own project, if you can think of one that better fits your interest and skill level. If a project description is unclear or you have any questions, please get in touch with its mentor and/or join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/DfJFjpxmC7) channel at *#general*.
3. **Contact us.** If you decide on a project, get in touch with the community and let us know. If you want to work on a qualification task, let the respective mentor know so we can avoid duplicated efforts.
4. **Apply.** Students should apply definitely before deadline on April 19th. The "work" period begins on June 13th and ends in September. Take a look at [​](https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/timeline)[GSoC timeline](https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/timeline) for additional information. Note, make sure you apply to Google before April 19th, even if you have not yet finished your qualification task. Please apply as soon as possible: Applications can be improved until the 19th but not afterwards!


> **Note**: A friendly reminder that while the application to GSoC is important for you and GSoC, SRS mentors will not base their decision solely on the GSoC application. We will judge applicants based on their qualification tasks to understand their abilities in coding, learning the tools, communication skills etc. So please do not worry about your application being perfect for us. Although it is very important to follow GSoC's application rules so they can pay you.

### Qualification Tasks

In order to get accepted you have to complete a small qualification task which in all cases include sending a patch to the development mailing list. SRS development can be quite challenging and the qualification task helps us figure out whether you are motivated enough and have the potential to deliver successfully.

The qualification tasks are usually shown in the project description. Contact the respective mentor(s) for assistance on getting a related qualification task or if you want to propose your own. You can also browse the [SRS Bug Issue](https://github.com/ossrs/srs) for qualification task ideas. In general qualification tasks should include submitting a patch to the [SRS Bug Issue](https://github.com/ossrs/srs) which passes review and is accepted into the SRS codebase. It will be common for such patches to need multiple iterations of submissions and reviews, so don't wait too long with the first submission! Note, please avoid picking a qualification task which another student is already working on, each student should work on a different qualification task.

### Development

If you are selected for a particular project then you are not only expected to present a working implementation but you should also submit your work for inclusion for the SRS codebase. This should be done at least 2-3 weeks before the end of the second work period by sending patches to the [SRS Bug Issue](https://github.com/ossrs/srs)&[Discord](https://discord.gg/DfJFjpxmC7) where the SRS community and your mentor will review your work. You will likely be asked to make some changes and resend improved versions. If you feel that no consensus is reached about how something should be done then follow the advice of your mentor.

In order to create good quality patches make sure to read the [Developer Documentation](https://github.com/ossrs/srs/wiki/v4_EN_Home#getting-started).

### Contacting SRS

If you have questions or comments feel free to contact us via our mail, Discord one of the SRS GSoC admins:

* **Discord:** *#general*
* **SRS GSoC Admins:** Winlin (winlin in #general on [Discord](https://discord.gg/DfJFjpxmC7), winlinvip at gmail dot com ), Devin (Devin in *#general* on [Discord](https://discord.gg/DfJFjpxmC7), devin at ossrs dot io), LiuQi (Steven in *#general* on [Discord](https://discord.gg/DfJFjpxmC7), lq at chinaffmpeg dot org)
You may also contact a mentor directly if you have questions specifically related to one of the projects listed on this page.

## Mentored Project Ideas

This section lists well-defined projects that have one or more available mentors. If you are new to SRS, and have relatively little experience with multimedia, you should favor one of these ideas rather than propose your own. Contact the respective mentor(s) to get more information about the project and the requested qualification task.

### 1. Support Prometheus API

|Name of project|SRS support Prometheus API|
| :---- | :----- |
|Project Description|Prometheus is a common component of system monitoring, support Prometheus API, so that the monitoring system can display SRS service related properties in the form of charts, or audio and video frame rate, bit rate and other information.|
|Mentor|Haibo Chen(nmgchenhaibo@foxmail.com)|
|Backup Mentor|Junqin Zhang(chundonglinlin@163.com)|
|Skills needed|Familiar with HTTP protocol, understand HTTP server-client interaction process.|
|Difficulty|Beginner|
|Expected results|Use Prometheus client to be able to access and get the expected results.|
|Qualification Task|Complete the Prometheus API writing and testing.|

### 2. Configuration file yaml parsing

|Name of project|Configuration file support yaml parsing|
| :---- | :----- |
|Project Description|SRS current configuration file format is a private format, similar to nginx, yaml is a common way of configuration file, there are more people familiar with the use of.|
|Mentor|Junqin Zhang(chundonglinlin@163.com)|
|Backup Mentor|Haibo Chen(nmgchenhaibo@foxmail.com)|
|Skills needed|Familiar with yaml file format and its parsing method, skilled in C++ programming.|
|Difficulty|Beginner|
|Expected results|SRS existing configuration file can be converted to yaml parsing and execution.|
|Qualification Task|Implement the parsing of yaml files.|

### 3. CPU adaptation

|Name of project|SRS ported to RISC platform, CPU adaptation|
| :---- | :----- |
|Project Description|SRS underlying use of IO libraries, currently has been adapted to Intel, ARM and many other platforms. With the gradual development of RISC, the support for RISC can further enhance the support of SRS for multiple platforms.|
|Mentor|Winlin(winlinvip@gmail.com)|
|Backup Mentor|Zhihong Xiao(hondaxiao@tencent.com), Feng Yi(yifeng1983@gmail.com)|
|Skills needed|Familiar with RISC platform assembly instruction set, familiar with the principle of computer program execution.|
|Difficulty|Advanced|
|Expected results|Be able to run SRS on the RIST platform, and run all the functions of 4.0release normally.|
|Qualification Task|Implement st-thread stack saving on RISC platform, restore logic.|

### 4. DASH

|Name of project|DASH support SegmentTemplate Time mode|
| :---- | :----- |
|Project Description|The current SRS DASH only supports SegmentTemplate's Number mode, while the mainstream players are more recommended Time mode.|
|Mentor|Zhihong Xiao(hondaxiao@tencent.com)|
|Backup Mentor|Winlin(winlinvip@gmail.com), Steven Liu(lq@chinaffmpeg.org)|
|Skills needed|Familiar with DASH protocol, understand video to encapsulation, familiar with using C++ programming.|
|Difficulty|Intermediate|
|Expected results|Be able to use dash.js, VLC, ffplay and other common players for playback.|
|Qualification Task|Implement DASH SegmentTemplate Time mode.|

### 5. HLS LLHLS mode

|Name of project|HLS support LLHLS mode|
| :---- | :----- |
|Project Description|HLS is a live file slicing method proposed by APPLE, the current drawback is the long delay, LLHLS can greatly reduce the delay of HLS.|
|Mentor|Zhihong Xiao(hondaxiao@tencent.com)|
|Backup Mentor|Wei Shi(shiwei05@kuaishou.com)|
|Skills needed|Familiar with HLS, LLHLS, good ability to read standard documents, familiar with programming in C++.|
|Difficulty|Advanced|
|Expected results|Be able to play on a player that supports LLHLS and achieve latency within expectations.|
|Qualification Task|LLHLS coding, encapsulation, manifest file generation.|

### 6. Asynchronous DNS Resolution

|Name of project|Asynchronous DNS Resolution|
| :---- | :----- |
|Project Description|The IO used by SRS is coroutine IO, but the current DNS resolution is still synchronous resolution. Asynchronous DNS resolution can make better use of coroutine resources and avoid affecting other IO due to DNS blocking.|
|Mentor|Guanghua Chen（jinxue.cgh@alibaba-inc.com）|
|Backup Mentor|Zhihong Xiao （hondaxiao@tencent.com）|
|Skills needed|Familiar with DNS resolution process, familiar with programming in C++|
|Difficulty|Advanced|
|Expected results|Ability to perform asynchronous DNS resolution and pass the test.|
|Qualification Task|complete DNS asynchronous resolution and coroutine encapsulation.|

### 7. RIST push streaming protocol support

|Name of project|RIST push streaming protocol support|
| :---- | :----- |
|Project Description|RIST is a streaming protocol that has emerged in recent years. It has better features than traditional RTP streaming, such as better transmission control, etc.|
|Mentor|Zhihong Xiao （hondaxiao@tencent.com）|
|Backup Mentor|Xiaojun Zhou （279686030@qq.com）|
|Skills needed|Familiar with RIST push protocol, familiar with C++ programming.|
|Difficulty|Advanced|
|Expected results|Able to push RIST stream to SRS, and convert to RTMP/FLV/WebRTC etc.|
|Qualification Task|Completion of RIST protocol reception and trans-packaging into other protocols.|

### 8. Refactoring of official website document content

|Name of project|Refactoring of official website document content|
| :---- | :----- |
|Project Description|Sort out the existing wikis, articles, videos and other resources of SRS, and integrate them into the official website.|
|Mentor|Xiaowei Meng (542638787@qq.com)|
|Backup Mentor|Xiaosong Dai (kunkkaco@gmail.com)|
|Skills needed|Familiar with javascript, proficient in using SRS server, good in English.|
|Difficulty|Beginner|
|Expected results|Be able to easily get started with SRS by reading the documentation.|
|Qualification Task|Complete the display of official website documents, cases, blogs, and various sub-modules of the community.|

Commit message:

add expected size of project for GSoC

blog/2022-02-10-GSoC.md, after:

---
slug: GSoC-2022
title: GSoC
authors: []
tags: [GSoC]
custom_edit_url: null
---

## Project Description

SRS is a simple, high efficiency and realtime video server, supports RTMP/WebRTC/HLS/HTTP-FLV/SRT.

## Information for Students

### Getting Started

1. **Get to know SRS.** If you are a student interested in contributing to SRS, it is recommended to start by join to the SRS [Discord](https://discord.gg/DfJFjpxmC7) and exploring both the codebase and the development workflow. Feel free to contact us if you have any questions. Also do not hesitate to answer questions from other students on our [Discord](https://discord.gg/DfJFjpxmC7) channel if you know the answer to something.
2. **Find a project.** Listed on this page are mentored and un-mentored projects. Mentored projects are well-defined and mentor(s) have already volunteered. Un-mentored projects are additional ideas you may want to consider, but you will have to contact us to find a mentor. You can also propose your own project, if you can think of one that better fits your interest and skill level. If a project description is unclear or you have any questions, please get in touch with its mentor and/or join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/DfJFjpxmC7) channel at *#general*.
3. **Contact us.** If you decide on a project, get in touch with the community and let us know. If you want to work on a qualification task, let the respective mentor know so we can avoid duplicated efforts.
4. **Apply.** Students should apply definitely before deadline on April 19th. The "work" period begins on June 13th and ends in September. Take a look at [​](https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/timeline)[GSoC timeline](https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/timeline) for additional information. Note, make sure you apply to Google before April 19th, even if you have not yet finished your qualification task. Please apply as soon as possible: Applications can be improved until the 19th but not afterwards!


> **Note**: A friendly reminder that while the application to GSoC is important for you and GSoC, SRS mentors will not base their decision solely on the GSoC application. We will judge applicants based on their qualification tasks to understand their abilities in coding, learning the tools, communication skills etc. So please do not worry about your application being perfect for us. Although it is very important to follow GSoC's application rules so they can pay you.

### Qualification Tasks

In order to get accepted you have to complete a small qualification task which in all cases include sending a patch to the development mailing list. SRS development can be quite challenging and the qualification task helps us figure out whether you are motivated enough and have the potential to deliver successfully.

The qualification tasks are usually shown in the project description. Contact the respective mentor(s) for assistance on getting a related qualification task or if you want to propose your own. You can also browse the [SRS Bug Issue](https://github.com/ossrs/srs) for qualification task ideas. In general qualification tasks should include submitting a patch to the [SRS Bug Issue](https://github.com/ossrs/srs) which passes review and is accepted into the SRS codebase. It will be common for such patches to need multiple iterations of submissions and reviews, so don't wait too long with the first submission! Note, please avoid picking a qualification task which another student is already working on, each student should work on a different qualification task.

### Development

If you are selected for a particular project then you are not only expected to present a working implementation but you should also submit your work for inclusion for the SRS codebase. This should be done at least 2-3 weeks before the end of the second work period by sending patches to the [SRS Bug Issue](https://github.com/ossrs/srs)&[Discord](https://discord.gg/DfJFjpxmC7) where the SRS community and your mentor will review your work. You will likely be asked to make some changes and resend improved versions. If you feel that no consensus is reached about how something should be done then follow the advice of your mentor.

In order to create good quality patches make sure to read the [Developer Documentation](https://github.com/ossrs/srs/wiki/v4_EN_Home#getting-started).

### Contacting SRS

If you have questions or comments feel free to contact us via our mail, Discord one of the SRS GSoC admins:

* **Discord:** *#general*
* **SRS GSoC Admins:** Winlin (winlin in #general on [Discord](https://discord.gg/DfJFjpxmC7), winlinvip at gmail dot com ), Devin (Devin in *#general* on [Discord](https://discord.gg/DfJFjpxmC7), devin at ossrs dot io), LiuQi (Steven in *#general* on [Discord](https://discord.gg/DfJFjpxmC7), lq at chinaffmpeg dot org)
You may also contact a mentor directly if you have questions specifically related to one of the projects listed on this page.

## Mentored Project Ideas

This section lists well-defined projects that have one or more available mentors. If you are new to SRS, and have relatively little experience with multimedia, you should favor one of these ideas rather than propose your own. Contact the respective mentor(s) to get more information about the project and the requested qualification task.

### 1. Support Prometheus API

|Name of project|SRS support Prometheus API|
| :---- | :----- |
|Project Description|Prometheus is a common component of system monitoring, support Prometheus API, so that the monitoring system can display SRS service related properties in the form of charts, or audio and video frame rate, bit rate and other information.|
|Mentor|Haibo Chen(nmgchenhaibo@foxmail.com)|
|Backup Mentor|Junqin Zhang(chundonglinlin@163.com)|
|Skills needed|Familiar with HTTP protocol, understand HTTP server-client interaction process.|
|Expected size of project|180 hours|
|Difficulty|Beginner|
|Expected results|Use Prometheus client to be able to access and get the expected results.|
|Qualification Task|Complete the Prometheus API writing and testing.|

### 2. Configuration file yaml parsing

|Name of project|Configuration file support yaml parsing|
| :---- | :----- |
|Project Description|SRS current configuration file format is a private format, similar to nginx, yaml is a common way of configuration file, there are more people familiar with the use of.|
|Mentor|Junqin Zhang(chundonglinlin@163.com)|
|Backup Mentor|Haibo Chen(nmgchenhaibo@foxmail.com)|
|Skills needed|Familiar with yaml file format and its parsing method, skilled in C++ programming.|
|Expected size of project|120 hours|
|Difficulty|Beginner|
|Expected results|SRS existing configuration file can be converted to yaml parsing and execution.|
|Qualification Task|Implement the parsing of yaml files.|

### 3. CPU adaptation

|Name of project|SRS ported to RISC platform, CPU adaptation|
| :---- | :----- |
|Project Description|SRS underlying use of IO libraries, currently has been adapted to Intel, ARM and many other platforms. With the gradual development of RISC, the support for RISC can further enhance the support of SRS for multiple platforms.|
|Mentor|Winlin(winlinvip@gmail.com)|
|Backup Mentor|Zhihong Xiao(hondaxiao@tencent.com), Feng Yi(yifeng1983@gmail.com)|
|Skills needed|Familiar with RISC platform assembly instruction set, familiar with the principle of computer program execution.|
|Expected size of project|375 hours|
|Difficulty|Advanced|
|Expected results|Be able to run SRS on the RIST platform, and run all the functions of 4.0release normally.|
|Qualification Task|Implement st-thread stack saving on RISC platform, restore logic.|

### 4. DASH

|Name of project|DASH support SegmentTemplate Time mode|
| :---- | :----- |
|Project Description|The current SRS DASH only supports SegmentTemplate's Number mode, while the mainstream players are more recommended Time mode.|
|Mentor|Zhihong Xiao(hondaxiao@tencent.com)|
|Backup Mentor|Winlin(winlinvip@gmail.com), Steven Liu(lq@chinaffmpeg.org)|
|Skills needed|Familiar with DASH protocol, understand video to encapsulation, familiar with using C++ programming.|
|Expected size of project|280 hours|
|Difficulty|Intermediate|
|Expected results|Be able to use dash.js, VLC, ffplay and other common players for playback.|
|Qualification Task|Implement DASH SegmentTemplate Time mode.|

### 5. HLS LLHLS mode

|Name of project|HLS support LLHLS mode|
| :---- | :----- |
|Project Description|HLS is a live file slicing method proposed by APPLE, the current drawback is the long delay, LLHLS can greatly reduce the delay of HLS.|
|Mentor|Zhihong Xiao(hondaxiao@tencent.com)|
|Backup Mentor|Wei Shi(shiwei05@kuaishou.com)|
|Skills needed|Familiar with HLS, LLHLS, good ability to read standard documents, familiar with programming in C++.|
|Expected size of project|375 hours|
|Difficulty|Advanced|
|Expected results|Be able to play on a player that supports LLHLS and achieve latency within expectations.|
|Qualification Task|LLHLS coding, encapsulation, manifest file generation.|

### 6. Asynchronous DNS Resolution

|Name of project|Asynchronous DNS Resolution|
| :---- | :----- |
|Project Description|The IO used by SRS is coroutine IO, but the current DNS resolution is still synchronous resolution. Asynchronous DNS resolution can make better use of coroutine resources and avoid affecting other IO due to DNS blocking.|
|Mentor|Guanghua Chen（jinxue.cgh@alibaba-inc.com）|
|Backup Mentor|Zhihong Xiao （hondaxiao@tencent.com）|
|Skills needed|Familiar with DNS resolution process, familiar with programming in C++|
|Expected size of project|180 hours|
|Difficulty|Advanced|
|Expected results|Ability to perform asynchronous DNS resolution and pass the test.|
|Qualification Task|complete DNS asynchronous resolution and coroutine encapsulation.|

### 7. RIST push streaming protocol support

|Name of project|RIST push streaming protocol support|
| :---- | :----- |
|Project Description|RIST is a streaming protocol that has emerged in recent years. It has better features than traditional RTP streaming, such as better transmission control, etc.|
|Mentor|Zhihong Xiao （hondaxiao@tencent.com）|
|Backup Mentor|Xiaojun Zhou （279686030@qq.com）|
|Skills needed|Familiar with RIST push protocol, familiar with C++ programming.|
|Expected size of project|240 hours|
|Difficulty|Advanced|
|Expected results|Able to push RIST stream to SRS, and convert to RTMP/FLV/WebRTC etc.|
|Qualification Task|Completion of RIST protocol reception and trans-packaging into other protocols.|

### 8. Refactoring of official website document content

|Name of project|Refactoring of official website document content|
| :---- | :----- |
|Project Description|Sort out the existing wikis, articles, videos and other resources of SRS, and integrate them into the official website.|
|Mentor|Xiaowei Meng (542638787@qq.com)|
|Backup Mentor|Xiaosong Dai (kunkkaco@gmail.com)|
|Skills needed|Familiar with javascript, proficient in using SRS server, good in English.|
|Expected size of project|375 hours|
|Difficulty|Beginner|
|Expected results|Be able to easily get started with SRS by reading the documentation.|
|Qualification Task|Complete the display of official website documents, cases, blogs, and various sub-modules of the community.|
