i18n/en-us/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/doc/getting-started-stack.md, before:

---
title: SRS Stack
sidebar_label: SRS Stack
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

# SRS Stack

SRS Stack is a video cloud solution that is lightweight, open-source, and based on Go,
Reactjs, SRS, FFmpeg, WebRTC, etc.

Comparing SRS Stack and SRS, both offer media streaming capabilities at a similar level.
However, SRS Stack provides a more powerful and feature-rich experience for end users,
eliminating the need to write any code. Users can directly utilize SRS Stack for your
media services needs.

| Comparison       | SRS Stack | SRS           | Notes                                                                |
|------------------|-----------|---------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| License          | MIT       | MIT           | Both are open-source with an MIT license.                          |
| Live Streaming   | Yes       | Yes           | Both support RTMP, HLS, and HTTP-FLV protocols.                      |
| WebRTC           | Yes       | Yes           | WebRTC is supported by both.                                         |
| Console          | Enhanced  | HTTP API      | SRS Stack offers a more powerful console.                            |
| Authentication   | Yes       | HTTP Callback | SRS Stack has built-in authentication, while SRS uses callbacks.     |
| DVR              | Enhanced  | File-based    | SRS Stack supports DVR to file and cloud storage.                    |
| Forwarding       | Enhanced  | Basic         | SRS Stack can forward to multiple platforms via various protocols.   |
| Virtual Live     | Yes       | No            | SRS Stack provides advanced virtual live streaming capabilities.     |
| WordPress        | Yes       | No            | SRS Stack offers a WordPress plugin and step-by-step guidelines.     |

## DigitalOcean Droplet

Please read [DigitalOcean Droplet](https://github.com/ossrs/srs-stack/wiki/Droplet): Create SRS Droplet.

## TencentCloud CVM

Please read [TencentCloud CVM](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1844y1L7dL/): Deploy SRS to Tencent CVM.

## TencentCloud LightHouse

Please read [TencentCloud LightHouse](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1844y1L7dL/): Deploy SRS to Tencent LightHouse.

![](https://ossrs.net/gif/v1/sls.gif?site=ossrs.io&path=/lts/doc/en/v6/getting-started-stack)

Commit message:

Update SRS Stack getting started.

i18n/en-us/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/doc/getting-started-stack.md, after:

---
title: SRS Stack
sidebar_label: SRS Stack
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

# SRS Stack

SRS Stack is a video cloud solution that is lightweight, open-source, and based on Go,
Reactjs, SRS, FFmpeg, WebRTC, etc.

Comparing SRS Stack and SRS, both offer media streaming capabilities at a similar level.
However, SRS Stack provides a more powerful and feature-rich experience for end users,
eliminating the need to write any code. Users can directly utilize SRS Stack for your
media services needs.

| Comparison       | SRS Stack | SRS           | Notes                                                                |
|------------------|-----------|---------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| License          | MIT       | MIT           | Both are open-source with an MIT license.                          |
| Live Streaming   | Yes       | Yes           | Both support RTMP, HLS, and HTTP-FLV protocols.                      |
| WebRTC           | Yes       | Yes           | WebRTC is supported by both.                                         |
| Console          | Enhanced  | HTTP API      | SRS Stack offers a more powerful console.                            |
| Authentication   | Yes       | HTTP Callback | SRS Stack has built-in authentication, while SRS uses callbacks.     |
| DVR              | Enhanced  | File-based    | SRS Stack supports DVR to file and cloud storage.                    |
| Forwarding       | Enhanced  | Basic         | SRS Stack can forward to multiple platforms via various protocols.   |
| Virtual Live     | Yes       | No            | SRS Stack provides advanced virtual live streaming capabilities.     |
| WordPress        | Yes       | No            | SRS Stack offers a WordPress plugin and step-by-step guidelines.     |

Special Note:

* Please choose the Ubuntu 20 system, as other systems may encounter some strange issues.

## Docker

SRS Stack offers a Docker image, for usage instructions refer to the [SRS Stack Docker](https://github.com/ossrs/srs-stack/issues/44).

## Script

For Ubuntu 20+, you can download the [linux-srs_stack-en.tar.gz](https://github.com/ossrs/srs-stack/releases/latest/download/linux-srs_stack-en.tar.gz)
and install it.

## DigitalOcean Droplet

Easily set up an SRS Stack with just one click. For more information, check out
[How to Establish a Video Streaming Service with a Single Click](/blog/SRS-Cloud-Tutorial).

## aaPanel

SRS Stack offers a BaoTa plugin, for usage instructions refer to the [SRS Stack aaPanel Plugin](/blog/BT-aaPanel).

## TencentCloud LightHouse

Please read [TencentCloud LightHouse](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1844y1L7dL/): Deploy SRS to Tencent LightHouse.

![](https://ossrs.net/gif/v1/sls.gif?site=ossrs.io&path=/lts/doc/en/v6/getting-started-stack)
