i18n/en-us/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/doc/srt-url.md, before:

---
title: SRT URL
sidebar_label: SRT URL
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

# SRT URL Specification

Introduce how to generate publish/play url in SRT live mode.

## RTMP URL

For detail about RTMP URL specification, please read [RTMP URL](./rtmp-url-vhost.md).

* common rtmp url format(without vhost)
    - `rtmp://hostip:port/app/stream` 
    - example: `rtmp://10.111.1.100:1935/live/livestream` 
    - in the example above, app="live", stream="livestream" 
* complex rtmp url format(with vhost)
    - `rtmp://hostip:port/app/stream?vhost=xxx` 
    - example: `rtmp://10.111.1.100:1935/live/livestream?vhost=srs.com.cn` 
    - in the example above, vhost="srs.com.cn", app="live", stream="livestream"

How rtmp distinguish the url is use to publish or play stream:

* publish 
    - In rtmp protocol `publish message` indicate the url is use for publish stream
* play 
    - In rtmp protocol `play message` indicate the url is use for play stream

## SRT URL Format

Because srt is in the transport layer, we can't determine the given srt url is use to publish or play stream.

The srt official recommend how to configure url: [AccessControl.md](https://github.com/Haivision/srt/blob/master/docs/features/access-control.md)
The key method is using parameters in streamid to determine the usage of srt url, the format of streamid in YAML format.

## SRT URL no Vhost

srt url example:
* publish: `srt://127.0.0.1:10080?streamid=#!::r=live/livestream,m=publish` 
* play: `srt://127.0.0.1:10080?streamid=#!::r=live/livestream,m=request` 

Note:
* `#!::` 
    - `#!::` is the begining of streamid, in YAML format.
* r 
    - map to /app/stream in rtmp url
* m 
    - publish means publish stream.
    - request measn play stream.

the rtmp url correspond with srt url above is: `rtmp://127.0.0.1/live/livestream`

## SRT URL for Vhost

srt url example:
* publish: `srt://127.0.0.1:10080?streamid=#!::h=srs.srt.com.cn,r=live/livestream,m=publish` 
* play: `srt://127.0.0.1:10080?streamid=#!::h=srs.srt.com.cn,r=live/livestream,m=request` 

Note:
* `#!::` 
    - `#!::` is the begining of streamid, in yaml format.
* h 
    - map to vhost in rtmp url
* r 
    - map to /app/stream in rtmp url
* m 
    - publish means publish stream.
    - request measn play stream.

The rtmp url correspond with srt url above is: `rtmp://127.0.0.1/live/livestream?vhost=srs.srt.com.cn`.

Runner365 2020.02

![](https://ossrs.net/gif/v1/sls.gif?site=ossrs.io&path=/lts/doc/en/v5/srt-url)

Commit message:

Add obs/ffmpeg example in srt-url, add encrypt in srt-param (#47)
* Add empty streamid doc in srt-url

* Add obs/ffmpeg example in srt-url

* Add srt encrpyt option in srt-params

i18n/en-us/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/doc/srt-url.md, after:

---
title: SRT URL
sidebar_label: SRT URL
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

# SRT URL Specification

Introduce how to generate publish/play url in SRT live mode.

## RTMP URL

For detail about RTMP URL specification, please read [RTMP URL](./rtmp-url-vhost.md).

* common rtmp url format(without vhost)
    - `rtmp://hostip:port/app/stream` 
    - example: `rtmp://10.111.1.100:1935/live/livestream` 
    - in the example above, app="live", stream="livestream" 
* complex rtmp url format(with vhost)
    - `rtmp://hostip:port/app/stream?vhost=xxx` 
    - example: `rtmp://10.111.1.100:1935/live/livestream?vhost=srs.com.cn` 
    - in the example above, vhost="srs.com.cn", app="live", stream="livestream"

How rtmp distinguish the url is use to publish or play stream:

* publish 
    - In rtmp protocol `publish message` indicate the url is use for publish stream
* play 
    - In rtmp protocol `play message` indicate the url is use for play stream

## SRT URL Format

Because srt is in the transport layer, we can't determine the given srt url is use to publish or play stream.

The srt official recommend how to configure url: [AccessControl.md](https://github.com/Haivision/srt/blob/master/docs/features/access-control.md)
The key method is using parameters in streamid to determine the usage of srt url, the format of streamid in YAML format.

## SRT URL no Vhost

srt url example:
* publish: `srt://127.0.0.1:10080?streamid=#!::r=live/livestream,m=publish` 
* play: `srt://127.0.0.1:10080?streamid=#!::r=live/livestream,m=request` 

Note:
* `#!::` 
    - `#!::` is the begining of streamid, in YAML format.
* r 
    - map to /app/stream in rtmp url
* m 
    - publish means publish stream.
    - request measn play stream.

the rtmp url correspond with srt url above is: `rtmp://127.0.0.1/live/livestream`

## SRT URL for Vhost

srt url example:
* publish: `srt://127.0.0.1:10080?streamid=#!::h=srs.srt.com.cn,r=live/livestream,m=publish` 
* play: `srt://127.0.0.1:10080?streamid=#!::h=srs.srt.com.cn,r=live/livestream,m=request` 

Note:
* `#!::` 
    - `#!::` is the begining of streamid, in yaml format.
* h 
    - map to vhost in rtmp url
* r 
    - map to /app/stream in rtmp url
* m 
    - publish means publish stream.
    - request measn play stream.

The rtmp url correspond with srt url above is: `rtmp://127.0.0.1/live/livestream?vhost=srs.srt.com.cn`.

## SRT URL with empty streamid

Some SRT devices do not support streamid or specific character in streamid('!' or '#' or ',' ...).
In this case, we can only use ip:port to publish SRT stream, for example `srt://127.0.0.1:10080`, SRS will set
streamid with default value "#!::r=live/livestream,m=publish". So the SRT url above is equal to
`srt://127.0.0.1:10080?streamid=#!::r=live/livestream,m=publish`.

Note: When streamid empty, only allow publish stream, can not play stream.

FFmpeg example:
> ffmpeg -re -i source.mp4 -c:v libx265 -c:a -f mpegts 'srt://127.0.0.1:10080'

OBS example:
> ![](/img/doc-main-concepts-srt-url-001.png)

Runner365 2020.02

![](https://ossrs.net/gif/v1/sls.gif?site=ossrs.io&path=/lts/doc/en/v5/srt-url)
